###### Störmer, V. S., & Alvarez, G. A. (2016). Attention Alters Perceived Attractiveness. Psychological science, 27(4), 563-571.

My research interests lie in cognitive neuroscience of human vision. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging and psychophysics, I have sought to investigate how human visual perception or behavior is linked to neural activity in the hope of understanding the neural computations that give rise to visual perception. In an effort to achieve this research goal, one stream of my research examines how visual attention alters both neural activity and perceptual experience and pursues to build a computational model which can explain those changes. A number of studies of visual attention have shown that attention boosts the perceived intensity of a stimulus and also shown that attention modulates stimulus-evoked neural activity in visual cortices. While such previous studies used simple visual stimuli which are suitable for studying low-level sensory processing, there have been relatively few studies that used real-world stimuli to investigate behavioral consequences of attention on higher-level real-world stimuli that involves later visual areas. Störmer and Alvarez (2016) investigated whether exogenous attention alters high-level perception of "faces". Using a classic attentional-cuing paradigm, they found out that attended faces were reported as more attractive than the unattended faces, an effect driven by changes in perceived contrast of local features which is a relatively low-level component of faces. Not only is this study relevant with my research interests, I believe this study could also potentially answer my question about whether attention acts first on early or later visual processing stages even though this study did not look at neural activity directly.

Störmer and Alvarez used images of female Caucasian faces taken from Bronstad and Russell’s (2007) database. They converted the images to gray scale and cropped them such that only thier inner features were visible. They also systematically manipulated the contrast of the eye region of the faces because it has been known that contrast around the eye region (e.g., eyebrows, eyelashes) plays a significant role in determining how attractive a face looks. Five contrast levels were used. In each trial, two faces were presented simultaneously to the left and right of fixation. The contrast of one face was always fixed at Level 3 (Standard face), and the contrast of the other faces varied (Level 1-5) from trial to trial. Participants were briefly (70ms) cued with a dot in one of the two locations before the presentation of faces. Faces were presented for 58 ms, and after faces disappeared participants responded which of the two faces looked more attractive (Experiment 1). They also examined the effect of the duration between the onsets of the cue and the target display (SOA, Experiment 2). In Experiment 3, they used the same paradigm as Experiment 1 but this time asked participants to report the face that appeared to have higher contrast around the eye region. They found out that attention increased the apparent contrast around the eye region of the faces in the cued location. I would like to replicate Experiment 3 of the paper.

I think potential challenge in this replication project would be that it might be hard to control the duration of stimulus presentation (in ms) accurately on mTurk and that I would not be able to control for the eye movement of observers whereas they measured the gaze position and discarded the trials where the observers did not maintain fixation well in the original paper. In addition, I am not familiar with programming in java and conducting online experiments, which I think would be challenging as well.